+++
date=2019-05-01
title="IR lab members won the second place in WSDM Spotify Challenge"
+++

Researchers from the IR lab competed in the <a href="https://www.crowdai.org/challenges/spotify-sequential-skip-prediction-challenge">Spotify Sequential Skip Prediction Challenge</a> at WSDM Cup. The task of the competition was to predict if users will skip or listen to the music they are currently streaming. The team won the second place with a deep learning approach described in the following paper. 

<a href={{<ref "publication/hansen-2019-modelling/index.md">}}><h3>Modelling Sequential Music Track Skips using a Multi-RNN Approach</h3></a>
Modelling sequential music skips provides streaming companies the
ability to better understand the needs of the user base, resulting in a
better user experience by reducing the need to manually skip certain
music tracks. This paper describes the solution of the University of
Copenhagen ”DIKU-IR” team in the ”Spotify Sequential Skip Prediction Challenge”, where the task was to predict the skip behaviour of
the second half in a music listening session conditioned on the first
half. We model this task using a Multi-RNN approach consisting
of two distinct stacked recurrent neural networks, where one network focuses on encoding the first half of the session and the other
network focuses on utilizing the encoding to make sequential skip
predictions. The encoder network is initialized by a learned sessionwide music encoding, and both of them utilize a learned track embedding. Our final model consists of a majority voted ensemble of
individually trained models, and ranked 2nd out of 45 participating
teams in the competition with a mean average accuracy of 0.641 and
an accuracy on the first skip prediction of 0.807. 

